# Radiohead-Analysis
By collecting data on Radiohead songs I aim to figure out how much a song's number of streams, mood, and album impacts the rating I give it on a scale between 1 and 10. 

I gathered and analyzed 30 songs from the band Radiohead's discography through the music streaming service Spotify. I observed the mood, number of streams, and album of each song before rating them on a scale from 1 to 10.  
My two qualitative variables are the mood of each song and the album of each song. My two quantitative variables are my rating of each song and the number of streams each song had on Spotify the day I observed them. I used a convenience sample to collect my data by selecting the Radiohead songs that came up in my recomended feed on Spotify which made it simple to choose the 30 songs I was going to analyze. 

I operationalized Radiohead's songs by assigning each song one out of five common moods found in music, and assigning each mood a number value. The moods I decided to use are subjective, depressing, anxious, energetic, and calm. There are several more moods that I could have chosen, but these were the ones I thought best represented Radiohead's discography and captured the overall mood of each song I analyzed. 
I operationalized Radiohead's songs by making note of which album each song was a part of and assigning each album a number value. Separating the songs by the album they are a part of helped me see which albums had the best ratings, the highest number of streams, and the kinds of moods each album had the most of. Now that I have collected all of my data, every song and every album can be observed through the measurable values I analyzed such as several streams and mood. 
I rated each song I observed on a scale from 1 to 10 which gave me a simple way to determine which songs I enjoyed and which ones I enjoyed less. This helped operationalize the songs by grouping them into ratings and I could see which songs got the same ratings as others. My rating can also be compared to my other variables which allows me to determine whether or not the mood, album, or number of streams a song has impacted how much I enjoyed it. 
Finally, I used the number of streams that each song has on Spotify to operationalize them. The number of streams that a song has on Spotify usually corresponds with the song's popularity, so I wanted to observe the number of streams the songs I was analyzing had and then compare the rating I gave to them to that amount. Seeing the relationship between how many streams a song has and the rating I give it sounded exciting to me when I was selecting variables to use.

A chi-squared test tells us if two variables are independent of one another, meaning that the outcome of one variable does not affect the outcome of the other. The variables I tested using this method were mood and album, and the resulting p-value was .0643 which means that out of the observed Radiohead songs, the album a song belongs to does not affect the mood of the song.  

An ANOVA test compares the means from two different variables and the variables I used for this test are mood and the rating of each song. The test resulted in 3% of the variance across song ratings due to the mood of the song. This very low percentage shows that the mood of the song had little to no effect on how high I rated it on a scale from 1 to 10. 

A correlation test measures the strength of the linear relationship between two variables and determines their association. With this test, I observed the relationship between the rating and the number of streams each Radiohead song had. The test resulted in a correlation coefficient of .3463 which means there was a low correlation between the rating and number of streams a song had. However, there is a positive linear correlation, the correlation is just low. 

Regression analysis examines the influence an independent variable has on a dependent variable. The variables I observed with this test were rating and number of streams which resulted in a p-value of .0608 which shows a high association between the two variables. 
